[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Along the West
Coast of India,
the area now known as the
modern state of Gujarat,
has been the focus of
many mysteries that baffle
researchers, scholars,
and spiritual leaders.
The name "Dvaraka,"
also known as "Dwarka"
or "Dvaravati"
translates to "Gateway".
On the Western point
of Gujarat in India
sits the modern
day city of Dwarka.
This site is one of the seven
legendary sacred pilgrimage
sites from the Hindu traditions.
But could there be an ancient
pre-Deluvian city of gold
that was a coastal
kingdom on the Arabian Sea
thousands of years ago?
Legendary tales
from the Mahabharata
recall the time when Krishna
left the Earth and his city,
referred to as Dvaraka,
was swallowed by the ocean.
Archeologists have
searched the entire coast
of Gujarat for clues
to approximate the date
of this once thriving area
known in mythology as Krishna's
Kingdom.
But will recent evidence
help us discover
the original
mythological gateway that
once stood as a shining and
sophisticated city 12,000 years
ago before the Great Flood?
>> In 2001, scientist from
the Indian government made
the discovery in the Gulf
of Khambhat that continues
to shake the foundations of
everything that archeologists
thought they believed and
was true about this part
of the world, about
Western India.
The scientists were
on a research vessel
and they were using sonar to
determine levels of pollution
in the water.
The sonar began to return
a signature that was
anything other than natural.
They were the outlines
of massive buildings,
a huge complex
stretching for miles.
And this led to an
investigation that is still
controversial to this day.
The area is called
the Gulf of Khambhat.
And in Hindu traditions, there
has always been the belief
that there was a
city, some people
call them mythical
city of Dwarka,
where Krishna and
the gods lived,
and this is where many of the
descriptions in the Mahabharata
are actually playing out.
Well, up until recently,
officially, these
were believed to be stories
to help convey a message
but not based on
anything that is factual.
The discovery in
the Gulf of Khambhat
has changed all of that.
So what the scientists
have now found
is the remnants of a city, a
massive city, 5 miles long,
2 miles wide, possibly
two separate cities.
And when they
began dating debris
found from within
the cities, the dates
are coming back around
9,500 years before present,
and maybe a little
bit older than that.
Placing them precisely at the
time of the Younger Dryas,
and the results of
the Younger Dryas.
As the flooding
began, what we know
geologically is that the
sea level was 250 feet lower
during that time,
during the Younger Dryas
then it was after the flood.
So what we're looking
at is the remains
of a city that was right on
the edge of the shore that
was inundated when the seawall
broke and the massive flood
happened, whether it was a
result of the Milankovitch
cycles or the result of a
comet or a combination of all
of those.
We know factually that
the sea level did rise
and it rose enough to
inundate many coastal cities.
And it is very controversial
because the date does not
fit in to the history
as that history is
written into the books today.
The question is,
once again, will we
allow the evidence to lead us
to the story that it tells?
Or will we take that
evidence and try
to fit it into a pre-existing
story based upon a theory that
was made over 100 years ago?
>> When we're researching
the lost city of Krishna from
the Mahabharata, we come across
two terms which can be a little
bit confusing.
We find the word "Dwarka"
or the term "Dwaraka."
And as we dig deeper
and deeper, we
find out that
these two words are
interchangeable for the
same lost city of Krishna.
But where is this lost
city of Krishna located?
That's another
debate that when we
dig into the work of Dr. S.R.
Rao, who made it his life's
passion to uncover this
lost city of Krishna
from the Mahabharata,
he originally
landed in the city of
Dwarka, which is just
overlooking the Bay of Kutch.
Now, what he noticed is that
the foundations of the city
go down six layers deep,
suggesting that it's
thousands of years old.
And he thought,
maybe this is it.
But the legends
tell us that Dwaraka
was sunken under the ocean, so
he said maybe this isn't it.
So we started looking into
the oceans around that Dwarka,
and sure enough, he
found sunken ruins.
And he went, aha, this must be
the lost city of Krishna here.
Well, that wasn't good enough.
He kept digging in
the Bay of Cambay,
also known as the
Bay of Khambhat,
that there was a lost
city the size of Manhattan
some 36 meters under the ocean.
When Dr. S.R. Rao looked
at the depth of this lost
city in the Bay of
Khambhat, he suggested
that that may indicate that the
city was over 7,500 years old.
But as we look deeper into
the geological record,
possibly the city was sunk
back in the Younger Dryas era,
some 12,500 years old.
So it's going to be debated
how old this city is.
>> They found some amazing
artifacts at Dwarka.
Right off the coast, they
found different stone tools,
they found different
wooden tools,
they found pottery, and all
different types of artifacts.
They brought these
artifacts up and it
set the archeological
community on fire.
And what really sets
me off is the fact
that if you look at these
tools that they found,
these tools could not
have built this city.
So now, we have to ask the
question, how old really
is Dwarka?
How many more thousands of
years older than the people
who stumbled across it?
And we discovered their
tools and remnants of them
but they may have
just discovered
this place that was already
built in ancient times even
deep antiquity.
>> What's special about Dwarka
is not only that it was home
to Krishna but that it has
this fantastic description.
Hundreds of palaces
shining like gems
is described as
sort of a paradise.
So there must be something
enormously significant
about the location of Dwarka.
It suggests that we really
don't know how old, in fact,
Dwarka actually is.
>> This description leads
alternative researchers
to wonder, is there something
significant about the location
of this ancient lost
city of gold and jewels?
>> When we look at Earth
energies and how the Earth was
tapped into as a power source,
some Earth energies converge
at ancient sites, and these
are called Alpha Lines.
So they have a birthing point.
So if we imagine, for example,
that beneath these places,
energy is coming
up like a fountain,
really strong like a spring,
bursting through the ground,
the Alpha Line will come up
and then it will start to flow
and they have an alpha birthing
point and a termination
point called an omega point.
So if we imagine that
the ancients would
look for these birthing
points of these energy
currents and the
termination points,
they are places that
have exceptional power.
>> The legends of Dwarka claim
that this was one of the most
beautiful cities in the world,
made of different emeralds,
gold, and crystals.
It was just amazing.
And also, the fact that it's
been so deeply submerged
in the water suggests that some
kind of cataclysm or battle
really did take place.
And the stories of
Krishna and King Salva
may have some reality to them.
>> In the archeological
excavations that they've done
in that area, one of the things
they found was a coin that
dated back to 9,000 BC.
And it is believed that it's
around this period of time
that the Epic of the Mahabharata
took place in that area.
>> Could this sunken
pre-Deluvian city,
also referred to by scholars as
Dwarka in the Gulf of Khambhat,
be the legendary Dvaraka,
lost city of Krishna?
According to
ancient Vedic texts,
this city was surrounded by
water and bridges connected
this city to the mainland.
Could this submerged
discovery be a clue
to a deeper understanding
of the mythological timeline
when the gods left the Earth
and there was a Great Flood
and humanity started over?
>> Krishna and his appearance on
Earth was a member of the Yadu
dynasty.
And their capital was originally
in a place called Mathura.
And the city of Mathura
was once attacked
by forces led by demonic kings.
And Krishna saw that to give
them a safer place to stay,
he manifested the
city of Dwarka.
And the city of Dwarka
was on an island connected
to the mainland by a causeway.
And it was fortified.
So he moved his family members
and other relatives there.
When Krishna felt that his
mission as an avatar who
had descended on to Earth had
been completed, he went back
and he decided that he would
take the members of his dynasty
back with him and cause his
city to become on manifest
and disappear from the
vision of people on Earth.
And therefore, he caused it
to descend into the depths
of the ocean, the ruins of it.
>> According to ancient
Vedic literature,
Dwarka was a beautiful city.
It was on the coast,
and it was the home base
of the god we know as Krishna.
And he would seem to have been
not just a mythical character,
but an actual King
that ruled here
into Dwarka in ancient times.
When exactly, we don't know.
But the same literature
talks about a huge river
known as the Sarasvati.
And this, we know, dried
up as much as 4,000
to 5,000 years ago.
So the city of Dwarka must
have existed before then.
And it had beautiful gardens,
it had beautiful courtyards.
Thousands of people lived there.
And it was a very
tranquil place.
But the problem is
that it would seem
to have been at the center
of the most hideous wars that
were going on between different
factions at this time.
Wars that would seem
to have involved
what we would call today
weapons of mass destruction.
>> When Robert Oppenheimer,
the father of the modern age
of nuclear weapons, was
asked how he felt about
the detonation of the
first nuclear bomb,
he corrected the questioner.
"Not the first atomic
bomb," he responded.
"The first atomic
bomb in modern times."
Could evidence here
at Dvaraka suggests
an advanced civilization
that had their hands
on nuclear weapons?
>> When you look at the wars
that are in the Mahabharata
and they talk about using these
weapons with this capability
of destroying even
worlds in some cases,
some of these weapons
once they were released,
it said that the enemy
would be defeated.
There's no question,
no doubt the enemy
was going to be defeated.
And I really think that
when you analyze Dwarka,
you will find that
there will be vitrified
stone, vitrified rock.
Even above ground where
their city remains,
you can find some
glass in the sand.
Now, the only way to turn sand
into glass is through high,
high heat temperatures,
3,000-plus degrees.
>> The ancient Vedic literature
tells us that during the wars
that took place between
Krishna, Dwarka,
and a rival king by
the name of Salva,
there were weapons that were
used that devastated not just
the cities but entire armies.
And that as much as
36 years after a war
that supposedly only
lasted about 18 days,
that there were
still what we would
describe as some kind of
nuclear winter taking place.
Not just humans were
being killed en masse,
but animals were just
falling over dead.
People seem to be
covered in something
that they were trying
to wash off them
by leaping into streams.
They talked about
mutations, blinding
lights that were so strong
that it was like 1,000 suns.
And what it strongly tells us is
that the ancient Vedic cultures
would appear to have had
these nuclear devices that
were set off and other
forms of missiles that could
cause incredible destruction.
>> We know that, historically,
the writer is being very
accurate.
This is important because
the rest of the story
sounds like a fantasy tale.
We're told that Krishna, for
example, traveled in the skies
in his celestial chariot,
his Vimana craft.
And fact, in fact, he
battled with a nearby King
called Salva that also possessed
one of these Vimana craft.
And they engaged in a war.
In fact, they are shooting
projectiles at one
another, projectiles
and missiles
that appear to light up
the sky during the day.
And ultimately, King Salva
is raining these projectiles
on Dwarka.
And Krishna
retaliates by sending
some ground-to-air
missile that ultimately
destroys Salva's Vimana.
So with that in mind and given
the factual basis for elements
in the Mahabharata,
we wonder, could it
be possible that
Dwarka was destroyed
by one of these weapons?
We're told that
Dwarka was destroyed
by water, that it's a sunken
city, it's a lost city.
But what caused that sinking?
Perhaps there's room or
latitude within the story
to offer up the possibility
that it was destroyed
by one of these
advanced weapons,
perhaps even a nuclear weapon
as described in the Mahabharata.
>> According to
these ancient texts,
Dwarka was attacked by
a King called Salva.
And he was said to have flying
machines with these kind
of laser energy weapons
which were probably
Vimanas, which are quite
well known in ancient India.
And it caused a huge
amount of devastation
almost destroyed the city.
But Krishna had his own
weaponry and he was sending up
thunder and lightning
from his vessels
to actually retaliate and try
and bring down King Salva.
So we have descriptions
here of almost
like nuclear style weaponry
and laser technology and flying
machines, all
clearly demonstrated
in the ancient texts of India.
>> One of the other things
that you find in the story
of the Mahabharata is
the talking about Vimana,
the aerial ships of the gods.
And it's interesting
because you find
the concept of these
aerial ships of the gods
throughout cultures.
Many times they're pulled
by a horse and this
is how the gods move from the
Earth to their heavenly realm.
So in the Mahabharata there was
a lot of advanced technology
that was used and what
was interesting is
that many of them were activated
by some kind of a mantra
or some kind of intention
that got the weapon to work.
And so to annihilate the
use of these weapons,
it said that Krishna asked
that the children of the weapon
bearers not be
taught the mantras so
that the weapons
would be unusable
for future generations.
Some stories suggest that
these weapons were thrown
into the ocean so
again they would
be unusable by
future generations
and that might also be why we
have never found these weapons.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In the story of the war
between Krishna and this King
Salva, it would seem that at
one point when Salva looked
as if he might be losing this
battle, this hideous battle,
that his architect designed
for him what is described
as an aircraft or an airship
that was made of precious
metals, and could fly through
the air and be visible at one
moment, and then
invisible at the next.
It could move--
it could suddenly
be-- it could be in
one place and then seen
in another place in the sky.
It could be on the ground,
and then the next moment,
it was seen on the
top of a mountain.
And from this aircraft
which is described--
[MISSILE FIRING]
--as a so-called
Vimana, Salva was
able to fire some kind of
missile that destroyed parts
of the ancient city of Dwarka.
[BOOM]
>> Researchers point out that
this isn't the first evidence
of the use of a nuclear blast,
and that this evidence almost
suggests a much larger battle
that spanned to different
territories.
>> Another city that researchers
now believe was destroyed
by an advanced weapon--
perhaps even a nuclear weapon--
is Mohenjo-daro in
present-day Pakistan.
David Davenport is
a British researcher
that spent 12 years
studying the Mahabharata
and came to the conclusion
that Mohenjo-daro was
destroyed by a nuclear weapon.
He cites an example in the text
that describes a plume that's
brighter than 1,000 suns that
turned Mohenjo-daro into ash
literally in an instant.
That sounds like something
that happened at Hiroshima
or Nagasaki and,
once again, aligns
with other concepts in the
Mahabharata that tells us
that the gods were
using some kind
of advanced weaponry in their
wars amongst themselves.
>> Ironically, you can see the
same thing at Mohenjo-daro,
where you have--
that was not a sunken city, but
the people are above ground.
The same thing-- the
buildings are turned to glass,
and the people are laying in
the streets still holding hands,
in some cases--
no evidence of any animals
coming to scavenge.
And there are also higher
than background radiation
when you scan them
with a Geiger counter.
And so I think in
the same region,
we have this war, according
to the Mahabharata.
And what we're looking at
with Mohenjo-daro and Dwarka
is evidence of this war.
>> It's important for us to
try and find evidence of this,
whether it be within the
Indus Valley Civilization,
at places like
Mohenjo-daro, and Harappa,
where we do find evidence of
mass human graves of people
that would seem to have
just keeled over and died,
evidence of glass through
some kind of extreme heat.
Is this giving us
the evidence that we
need of the use
and the existence
of these weapons of mass
destruction in past ages?
>> If this is true, that a
huge war with advanced weaponry
broke out between gods--
[THUNDER ROLLING]
--what other evidence do
we have of such battles
in ancient texts?
>> Yeah, we talk about the
golden age of the gods,
but you know what?
The gods are also
very dysfunctional.
And they said so.
Just because they were
a bit more developed
than ordinary
hunter-gatherers doesn't
mean that they didn't
succumb to the same foibles
that we do as human beings.
They fell under
the same problems.
There were jealousies,
there were rivalries,
there were positions of power.
The gods were very
different to us.
They were physically like
us, but they were not
quite like us.
So they are much
taller, for example.
They were much
greater in stature.
And that also frightened
a lot of people.
And there were many
cases and many stories
in the Indian texts
where the gods were also
driven en masse by a mass
uprising of civil disobedience.
So just because they were gods
doesn't mean that they also
didn't come under the same
influence of human problems
that we have today.
>> In ancient times, what we
find is that Krishna owned this
city of Dwarka, along
with many others.
However--
[SWORDS CLANKING]
--there is this
battle that's written
about not only in the
Mahabharata and the Bhagavad
Gita, but even in
the Sumerian tablets.
This is where the gods fell from
heaven to Earth to go against
the father-- the main father,
which would have been Anu--
and the other gods--
Krishna, Enki, Enlil, everyone.
These are the gods
from the ancient texts
from the Mahabharata, from the
Sumerian tablets, going to war
against each other.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> As so many legendary
tales have taught us,
this region of the planet
has a powerful influence
in humanity's journey.
After being
swallowed by the sea,
could the discovery
of this ancient city
at the bottom of
the Gulf of Khambhat
be a key to understanding
the timeline of the legends
from the Mahabharata?
We may never know the truth
from this legendary time
when modern-day
Gujarat was glistening
with golden gateways.
But what is for certain
there is an ancient city
completely underwater that
was the size of Manhattan that
sharply challenges the
mainstream understanding
and timeline of
human civilizations.
What other clues left
behind from our ancestors
will be found at the
bottom of the Arabian Sea
to help us understand this epic
time before the Great Deluge?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[IMPACT]